[MUSIC]
In today's exercise, we're going to
cover how to use Excel to simulate
multiple outcomes for
a given objective, such as profit.
We'll demonstrate Excel's ability
to create random inputs that
are based on a theoretical
probability distribution.
After viewing this exercise, you will
understand how to create a range of
outcomes based on random inputs to
deliver a more realistic scenario.
Your operations team has prepared a brief
summary of their outlook on demand over
the coming year.
They estimate that we'll have as few
as 135 passengers 10% of the time,
150 passengers 40% of the time,
175 passengers 30% of the time,
and 185 passengers 20% of the time.
In addition to random demand, we'll now
have random cost per mile depending
on fuel price, season, and
weather conditions, to name a few factors.
The operations team estimates that
the cost per mile will be between $30 and
$50 with each value in
the range equally likely.
We've added a few more important inputs,
such as the number of scheduled flights,
miles per flight and revenue per
passenger in cells B173 to H174.
Now, we want to take the probability
information above along with the inputs in
cells in B174 to H174 to
simulate annual profit for
the proposed Chicago to Atlanta route.
Using Excel's random functionality and
the summary information directly below,
let's run 90 simulations and
compute an average annual profit
under the uncertain conditions.
To assist in our calculations
later in the exercise,
we've created several aimed ranges.
First we have Total_Miles,
located in cell E174,
which refers to the total number of annual
miles for the Chicago to Atlanta route.
Next we have Min_Cost_per_Mile and
Max_Cost_per_Mile in cells F174 and
G174, respectively.
Revenue_per_Passenger is in cell H174.
The final named range is
the likelihood bins table in
cells B181 to D185, named likelihood bins.
We've identified four
possible outcomes for
the number of passengers
we can expect per flight.
However, we must consider the likelihood
of each outcome using the operation team's
probability estimates.
For example, we need to provide Excel
with information that will choose 150
passengers roughly 40% of the time as
an input for our 90 simulation runs.
Likewise, 175 should be an input
roughly 30% of the time, and so on.
The reason we say roughly is because we're
going to use Excel's RAND function to
randomly generate a value which will
help us determine which value of
passengers to choose for
each simulation run.
The first step in this process
is setting up likelihood bins.
The bins are going to be used
in conjunction with VLOOKUP and
the RAND function.
So let's turn our attention to
the likelihood bins we've started for
you in cells B182 to B185.
We have bin set up, but how did we assign
each bin a passenger per flight value?
You may notice that we have 0%,
rather than 40%, for 150 passengers.
Notice that 41% is in cell B183.
What this means is that when
VLOOKUP is provided, say,
0.39, it will choose 150.
However, for anything greater than or
equal to 0.04, but
less than 0.71,
VLOOKUP will choose 175 passengers.
In a similar manner,
185 will be chosen for
RAND values greater than or
equal to 0.71, but less than 0.91.
For anything greater than 0.91 up to 1,
VLOOKUP will choose 135.
This helps explain the mechanics of the
VLOOKUP, but where does the 71% come from?
It wasn't a likelihood value
provided by the operations team.
Recall anything greater than or
equal to 0, but
less than 41%,
will result in 150 for our VLOOKUP.
That represents our 40%
estimated probability,
which is basically 40% minus 0%,
which equals 40%.
Now, returning to the 71%.
Recall that 175 passengers
are expected around 30% of the time.
71% minus 41% equals 30% in this case.
The reason this works is because if
we compute 100 values using the RAND
function, we'd expect approximately
30 values between 0.31 and 0.71.
Again, this is approximate because
RAND uses a random number generator.
So each sample of 100 values
will be a little different.
Likewise, we expect to see 180
approximately 20% of the time.
So we have 91% minus 71%,
which equals 20%.
Finally, since RAND returns values
between 0 and 1, anything greater than or
equal to 0.91, up to 1,
should occur roughly 10% of the time,
which corresponds to our estimate for 135.
To summarize, we're going to generate
90 random values using RAND.
We expect around 40% of those values
to be less than or equal to 0.4,
30% to be between 0.41 and 0.71,
20% between 0.71 and
0.91, and 10% between 0.91 and 1.
We're taking advantage of this property
of RAND to generate a probability
distribution of passengers per flight.
In column D of the likelihood bins table,
we have calculated the annual revenue
associated with each level of
passengers per flight in column C.
This will be the final output
of the VLOOKUP calculation.
Beginning in cell G181,
we've designated a range of cells to
calculate profit, which is in column J.
For each of the 90 profit calculations in
column J, we'll have two random inputs,
Cost per Mile in column H and
Passenger Revenue in column I.
Cost per Mile can be
anywhere between $30 and
$50, where each value in
the range is equally likely.
This is different than the range
of passengers to expect,
where we were provided with
a probability distribution.
Similar to passengers per flight,
we're going to use the RAND function
to calculate a random value for
Cost per Mile, but this calculation
does not require a VLOOKUP.
So, let's begin by thinking
about this problem.
How do we get a value between
two numbers using RAND?
Let's begin by typing in
the formula in cell H182.
Then we can explain why it works.
First, begin by typing equal,
then the name of the named range
that refers to max cost per mile.
Max_Cost_per_Mile.
This will serve as our upper bound.
Now, type -rand().
This is our random component.
We want to multiply this by the difference
between our upper bound and lower bound.
So, type *( then the named range
that represents the upper bound,
Max_Cost_per_Mile minus our lower bound,
Min_Cost_per_Mile).
Hit enter and
we should have a value between 30 and 50.
So, why does this work?
Remember than RAND returns
a value between 0 and 1.
When RAND is close to 0,
we have our upper bound being subtracted
by a number very close to zero,
since a number multiplied by close to
zero will itself be close to zero.
In this case, we'll be close to 50.
On the other hand, if RAND is close to
one, we have our upper bound 50 being
subtracted by a number very close to the
difference between 50 and 30, which is 20.
50 minus 20 equals 30,
which is close to our lower bound.
Finally, if RAND is close to 0.5, we'll
be in the middle of our range, around 40.
Turning to column I,
let's use VLOOKUP, RAND and
our likelihood bins to get
a random revenue figure.
We explained this calculation when
we introduced the likelihood bins.
So let's begin by typing =VLOOKUP And
hit the tab key.
The first argument is going to be
a value returned by the RAND function.
So type RAND, and open and
close parenthesis then a comma.
The table array argument is
going to be the likelihood bin,
named range, so type likelihood
underscore bin then a comma.
Once VLOOKUP finds the correct bin,
we want it to choose values
from the third column.
Type three, then a comma.
Finally, we have
the range_lookup argument.
In this scenario, we want this argument
to be set to true, so type true.
We need the true option
because we're looking for
ranges of values to match against,
not exact matches.
To finalize the formula,
close parentheses and hit Enter.
We've calculated annual revenue, so
now we need to subtract annual cost
using the value in cell H182 and
the total miles named range.
In cell J182 type equal I182,
which is the annual revenue figure.
Now, subtract annual costs
by typing minus open
parenthesis Total_Miles
multiplied by H182.
Close parenthesis and hit Enter.
We've calculated one
simulated value of profit.
But we want 90, so we need to copy our
formulas down the rest of the table.
To copy the formulas down,
highlight cells H182 to J182.
Hover over the bottom right corner of
J182 until you see the cross-hair.
Once the cross-hair is visible,
double click and
the formulas will be copied down.
Now we have 90 different values of profit,
each accounting for
the random nature of our inputs.
Instead of one value,
we now have a range of values.
So how do we use this
range to make a decision?
Let's turn to the summary information.
We've provided summary information
that is calculated from
the results in cells J182 to J271,
our 90 simulation runs.
In cell C190,
we have calculated the average
profit from the 90 simulation runs.
Since the calculation is random,
the value will change with each iteration.
If you want to recalculate the formulas
using new random inputs for
Passenger Revenue and
Cost per Mile, hit the F9 key.
Notice how the average fluctuates
each time we press F9.
The good news is the average
profit is positive.
But the average can be a tricky
statistic if the data is skewed.
Another way to view our simulation runs
is to count the proportion of runs that
produce a profit greater than zero.
In cell C191,
we've provided this calculation along with
a conditionally formatted cell, C192.
The conditional formatting rules are based
on the assumption that anything greater
than or equal to 80% in cell C191
corresponds to a profitable scenario.
So it will get a green traffic light icon.
Less than 80% but greater than or
equal to 75% means the scenario
could be pursued, but with caution.
So that range gets a yellow light.
Scenarios with less than 75% profitable
simulation runs should not be pursued and
will get a red traffic light icon.
Please note these threshold
values are hypothetical.
In reality, you'd need to work with your
team to determine when a scenario is
worth pursuing given scenario
specific objectives and concerns.
We've demonstrated how to use Excel
to simulate a random process.
Now it's your turn to practice what you've
learned using the student workbook.
[MUSIC]